
Arriving late one Saturday at Mt. Vernon, the county-seat of Rockcastle,
the colored waiter on Sunday morning inquired: “Hes yo done gone an’
seen em?” Asking what he meant, he informed me that three men were
dangling from a tree in the court-house yard, lynched by an infuriated
mob during the night on suspicion of horse-stealing, “the unpardonable
sin” in Kentucky. A party of citizens had started for the cabin of a
notorious outlaw, observed skulking homeward under cover of darkness,
intending to string him up. The desperado was alert. He fired one shot,
which killed a man and stampeded the assailants. They returned to the
village, broke into the jail, dragged out three cowering wretches and
hanged them in short metre! The bodies swung in the air all day, a
significant warning to whoever might think of “walkin’ off with a hoss
critter.”

On that trip to Rockcastle county the train stopped at a wayside-station
bearing the pretentious epithet of Chicago. A tall, gaunt, unshaven,
uncombed man, with gnarled hands that appealed perpetually for soap and
water, high cheekbones, imperfect teeth and homespun-clothes of the
toughest description, stood on the platform in a pool of tobacco-juice.
A rustic behind me stuck his head through the car-window and addressed
the hard-looking citizen as “Jedge.” Honors are easy in Kentucky, where
“colonels,” “majors” and “judges” are “thick as leaves in Vallambrosa,”
but the title in this instance seemed too absurd to pass unheeded. When
the train started, in reply to my question whether the man on the
platform was a real judge, his friendly acquaintance took the pains to
say: “Wal, I can’t swar es he’s zackly, but las’ year he wuz jedge ov a
chicken-fight down ter Si Mason’s an’ we calls ’im jedge ever sence!”

[Illustration: A MOUNTAIN VENDETTA.]

Kentucky vendettas have often figured in thrilling narratives. Business
took me to the upper end of Laurel county one week. Litigants, witnesses
and hangers-on crowded the village, for a suit of unusual interest was
pending before the “’squar.” The principals were farmers from the hilly
region, whose fathers and grandfathers had been at loggerheads and
transmitted the quarrel to their posterity. Blood had been shed and
hatred reigned supreme. The important case was about to begin. Two shots
rang out so closely together as to be almost simultaneous, followed by a
regular fusilade. Everybody ran into the street, where four men lay
dead, a fifth was gasping his last breath and two others had ugly
wounds. The tragedy was soon explained. The two parties to the suit had
met on their way to the justice’s house. Both were armed, both drew
pistols and both dropped in their tracks, one a corpse and the second
ready for the coroner in a few moments. Relatives and adherents
continued the dreadful work and five lives paid the penalty of
ungovernable passion. The dead were wrapped in horse-blankets and carted
home. The case was not called. It had been “settled out of court.”
